# Company Operations Guide

This purpose of this Company Operations Guide is to provide guidelines as to how certain activities
undertaken as part of being a member of Thoth Tech should be conducted. This contents within this
guide will assist in achieving consistency in the micro-level company operations across all teams
and products.

## Table of Contents

- [Storage of documentation](#storage-of-documentation)
  - [Company Handbook](#company-handbook)
  - [Documentation Repository](#documentation-repository)
  - [Microsoft Teams channels](#microsoft-teams-channels)
    - [File & Folder Naming Conventions](#file--folder-naming-conventions)
- [Conducting Team Meetings](#conducting-team-meetings)
  - [Location of Team Meetings](#location-of-team-meetings)
    - [Scheduling Meetings in Private Channels](#scheduling-meetings-in-private-channels)
  - [Meeting Recordings](#meeting-recordings)

---

## Storage of Documentation

Undertaking documentation is a key company operations process within Thoth Tech, including
documenting research findings, testing processes and results, meeting notes, and much more. Ensuring
that this documentations adheres to the
[Writing Style Guide](https://github.com/thoth-tech/handbook/blob/main/docs/processes/documentation/writing-style-guide.md)
is important and so is ensuring that the documentation is stored in the correct location. The next
sections outline which types of documentation are to be stored in which locations, as well as the
recommended practices to be undertaken when storing documentation within these locations.

### Company Handbook

As best stated by Thoth Tech Managing Director Andrew Cain, the
[Company Handbook](https://github.com/thoth-tech/handbook) is "_the source of **truth** - the place
we go when we want to know something about a project, product, or team_". As such, the Company
Handbook is the location to store high-level information about the Company and the projects,
products, and teams within it, as well as processes and guidelines which apply to the whole of Thoth
Tech. It is important that the information included within the Company Handbook is reviewed reguarly
and updated to reflect any changes within the company.

The following are examples of information relevant to be added to the Company Handbook:

- Product information, including:
  - An overview of each product
  - Product goals and objectives
  - Guidelines for how new members can get started working on the product
- Team information, including:
  - Team members and their role titles
  - Objectives and goals for each trimester
- Information relevant to the whole company, including:
  - Communication guidelines
  - Contribution guidelines
  - Best practice policies
  - Learning resources (for example, how to use Markdown)
  - OnBoarding and OffBoarding processes
  - Company reports, charter, and structure
  - Leadership information
  - Data strategies
  - Quality assurance practices
- "Epics" - high-level documents which, in a single file, overview what the working points are which
  each product hopes to work towards and/or complete for this trimester. Epics can be for the whole
  project/product or can be for individual teams. For individual teams, they can guide what the
  priority tasks are for the trimester and what needs to be done, as well as provide a scope for
  tasks, so that team members can go about assigning themselves to the tasks and work towards
  completing them.

### Documentation Repository

The purpose of the [Documentation Repository](https://github.com/thoth-tech/documentation) is to
store any documentation which is not of high enough significance to go into the Company Handbook.
Although not relevant to the Handbook, adding all other documentation to this Documentation
Repository is important for transparency, and can evidence the progression of each team. Within the
Documentaion Repository, there is a folder for each team (under the relevant product folder) for
members of that team to store all of their non-Handbook documentation.

Specifically, the Documentation Repository can be used to store any:

- Research notes and findings
- Planning notes
- Diagrams developed
- Meeting notes
- Collaborative documents
- Testing processes and results

that are generated by each team, allowing it to be a centralised location for all such
documentation - which can then also be used to evidence the work performed by individuals and by the
team as a whole.

### Microsoft Teams channels

While the main storage locations for any documentation should be either the Company Handbook or the
Documentation Repository, Microsoft Teams channels may also be used to store:

- In-progress collaborative documents (for example, a shared Word doc for collaborating on goals for
  the trimester)
- The Team Worklog

For collaborative documents, once they have been completed or there is no longer a need to
collaborate on them, teams are to convert these documents in Markdown and add them to their team
folder within the Documentation Repository.

#### File & Folder Naming Conventions

For documents stored under the Microsoft Teams channels, teams are to store them within a folder
which aligns with the following naming requirements: **Trimester-Year-TeamName** (for example,
"T2-2022-CompanyOperations"). This ensures that the documents are stored under a relevant location
and, for future trimesters, assists the teams in finding and accessing relevant documentation.

For the name of each file then stored under the relevant team folders, these are to be logical file
names which succinctly describe what the document is (for example,
"CompanyDocumentation-Team-Worklog" rather than "Untitled1"). This will ensure that, at a glance,
team members - both current and future - will be able to understand what the overall content of each
documentation file will be and will assist in locating these documents.

## Conducting Team Meetings

Conducting and engaging in regular team meetings (at least once a week) is an important part of team
engagement, collaboration, and management. These meetings are an opportunity to revisit and discuss
the direction and tasks of the team, as well as a chance for members to discuss how they are
progressing in their tasks and any blockers they might be encountering. As such, the content of
these teams meetings is highly valuable to team members, leaders, and also higher-up members of the
company (including company directors) in ensuring that teams are on-track to achieveing their goals
for the trimester.

The next few sections outlines some guides as to where to conduct these meetings and some guidance
regarding meeting recordings.

### Location of Team Meetings

Each team within Thoth Tech is assigned their own private channel within Microsoft Teams to enable
communication and collaboration. **This private channel is also the location where team meetings are
to be conducted**, so that all team communication activities are conducted within the same location
for ease of access and transparancy. Further to this, conducting the team meetings within the same
private channel is important so that company directors can keep track of team engagement and attend
team meetings if necessary.

Although it is possible to schedule separate private meetings through the Microsoft Teams calendar
and conduct team meetings through this avenue, this creates another private "chat channel" specific
to the meeting and causes a separation between the communication in the main teams channel and the
conducted meetings. Hence, it is important that teams schedule the meeting and conduct it within
their dedicated team channel.

#### Scheduling Meetings in Private Channels

The following steps are a guide through the process of setting up a recurring meeting within a
private Microsoft Teams channel. Following this process allows for a meeting invite to be sent to
all team members within the channel, and adds the meeting to each member's calendar for ease of time
management.

1. In Microsoft Teams, select the three dots/elipsis next to the name of the relevant team channel
   (the three dots/elipsis appear to the right of the lock icon when the team name is hovered over),
   and then select "Get email address" from the drop-down menu.
2. In the resulting window is name of the channel followed by the channel's private email address in
   angle brackets (eg **Name of Channel** <**Channel email address**>). Highlight and copy only the
   channel email address contained in the angle brackets.
3. Next, select "Calendar" from the left side pane of Teams, and then "New meeting" in top
   right-hand-side of the calendar window.
4. Paste the channel email address into the meeting participants section (the section that says "Add
   required attendees"), fill in the rest of the appropriate meeting details (including meeting
   name, date, whether it is recurring, and a brief description), and select "Save".
5. And you're done! A meeting invite will be automatically sent to all members of the private
   channel and the scheduled meeting has been set up to be held within the private team channel.

(Note: this guide has been adapted from the instructions provided in
[this article](https://scoutsaustraliansw.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041835192-How-to-Schedule-a-meeting-from-within-a-private-Teams-channel))

### Meeting Recordings

Meeting recordings are a highly valuable source of evidence to demonstrate engagement and
collaboration by Thoth Tech members. Additionally, recordings of meetings can then be accessed and
utilised by members who were unable to attend the meeting live or could not atttend the full
duration of the meeting, ensuring that all members are up-to-date with what has been discussed in
the meetings.

**As such, all team meetings should be ensured that they are recorded** using the MS Teams recording
function, and that these recordings are stored in a location that is logical and accessible to all
relevant team members, leadership members, and company directors. For storing team meeting
recordings, it is recommended that they are placed in an appropriately named folder within the
"Files" tab of the team's private channel.
